# Predicting Bike Sharing Demand  

This project is for the Kaggle competition https://www.kaggle.com/c/bike-sharing-demand

**Description:** Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from a one location and return it to a different place on an as-needed basis. Currently, there are over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world.

The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for researchers because the duration of travel, departure location, arrival location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems therefore function as a sensor network, which can be used for studying mobility in a city. The objective of this competition is to combine the historical usage patterns with weather data in order to forecast bike rental demand in the Capital Bikeshare program in Washington, D.C.

**Files:** Training and Test dataset in the Data folder. <br>  bike_sharing_EDA.ipynb - Exploratory Data analysis and visualization <br> bike_sharing_prediction.ipynb - Data preprocessing, Machine learning Modeling, Analysis and Prediction <br>
Final submission in Submissions folder <br>.

**Modeling** used Linear Regression (Linear Regression, Ridge Regression and Lasso Regression), Random Forest Regression and Gradient boosting (XGBoost). XGBoost performed the best.
  **Kaggle Score = 0.44446**.

